Hello this is Kirill from forexboat dot com.
And welcome back to the course on testing and optimization in meditative for today we're going to talk
about rolling optimization and how it can benefit your algorithmic trading.
Let's look at a scenario for example you've completed all your optimizations back tests and forward
tests and you're ready to launch indemnities and then you're running them and assuming that you're happy
with the results you launch real tests on a with a small account just to see how your expert advisor
performs in real market conditions.
Assuming you're happy with that you launch a large scale real account with the same set and at the start
everything is going well you're very happy with the results your can balance increasing.
But unfortunately as we know nothing lasts for ever in this world.
And at some point that happiness is going to come to an end.
Because your expert advise is going to stop performing as well.
And let's pause for a second to understand why that can happen that this can be the case for many reasons
.
For example the market may have changed or the market just entered a different cycle for example last
cycle and expert adviser stopped making profits or their see if they can be seasonality effects.
For example if you're trading a currency that is somehow linked to a certain commodity which is seasonal
then that can affect your trade.
There are many manufacturers out there that can prevent or change the circumstances in which our share
rises trading and therefore lead it to start incurring losses.
So at this stage this is when everything turns around and all your profits can diminish very quickly
.
So we want to preempt that one moment.
We want to somehow protect ourselves from this happening.
And so let's do exactly that.
Let's rewind a bit and go back to the day when you launch a large scale real account.
Now you don't know when in the future this can occur like it can happen in a month it can happen in
five months it can happen in a couple in a year when this turnaround will occur.
Or maybe you and your expert advisor won't start making losses but it will start underperforming.
It won't be performing as well.
It will be making less profits.
So that's something also to look out for because a lot of traders will think that since an expert advise
is still making profits that's good.
But if it's not performing as well as you expected it to.
That actually means that something is going wrong and you have to look out for that as well.
So you don't know when the future will happen but you know that most likely it will occur at some point
.
So what the best thing to do and what rolling optimization implies is planning in advance a period of
time after which you will re optimize your expert advice.
So after the timeline goes past the second faded green cross what you will do or X market what you will
do is you will run another optimization of your expert advisor or you run a precise optimization of
the parameters you have run a few back tests and see how everything is going and see if you can actually
improve the results that are being shown by expert advisor.
And so when you get to that point in time the second green X on the timeline if you run the optimizations
and forward tests again you may uncover that if you adjust your the set of your expert advises that
you're currently using then you can improve the results or you can filter out additional losses that
were that had been incurred in the previous couple of months where you can somehow upgrade the performance
of the expert wise.
So if you do uncover that in that shameful period then you just adjust your set.
And that way you can avoid that loss on your account that we were talking about previously and that
change in the behavior of expert advice.
So why is it called rolling optimization.
Well because throughout the process of the algorithmic trading you don't just set your expert adviser
and let it run until the end of time.
No you have to shingle and actually you run these optimizations and forward tests throughout the lifecycle
of your trading system the way you shuffle them is it entirely depends on the system.
Think of it in terms of.
And this is the way I usually do it.
Think of it in terms of cost benefit analysis like how much money is this expert advice bringing If
it's a scalper.
It can be bringing you know thousand dollar thousands of dollars per day than it is worth your while
and worth your time to at the end of every day to sit down and really optimize expert wise and evaluate
his performance for the day and see if you can upgrade its set somehow.
If it's an hourly expert advisor is bringing you only maybe $50 a day then what is it going to be worth
your while to spend that extra two hours of your time to really optimize maybe save $50 a day on average
and then in four weeks in about a month you're going to get a thousand or so maybe it's worth your while
to spend two hours a month to optimize this.
In any case that is the approach I use and maybe that's something you would want to consider in terms
of share pooling these optimizations in for tests.
But certainly these they are something that has to be done throughout the lifecycle of your trading
strategy and also that will help you identify the moment when your expert advisor has passed its due
date because a lot of the systems out there they only work for a certain number of months or years.
And that's the reality of things.
Very rarely you will get a system that you will through optimization of constant optimization you will
be able to maintain for a long time.
Sometimes systems often systems only work for a year even through these optimizations for tests and
then you will see that the performance is deteriorating.
And regardless of how you're optimizing it that just means that that inefficiency in the market that
you were exploiting has been uncovered by many more of the traders and it's time to move on it's time
to get a new system in time to do all those optimizations.
The only goal that we're chasing is that the profits that you make while the system is working that
you're able to keep them and multiply them and then move onto the next system with those profits.
So that's in a nutshell rolling optimization.
I trust that you will take this into account and use this in your own trading strategies.
It's a very useful method that can really protect your investments and returns that you've already made
.
Thank you very much.
I look forward to seeing you next time.
Until then try